---
layout: post
title: Things I learned from Week 9
---

* Use .try to check if it’s a nil (i.e. to avoid an error related to nil… I ran into this when using .strftime on a date time that was nil)
* In application.js file, put your activity trigger 
$(document).on('click', '#open-test-data-directory', function() {
  $.ajax({
  method: "GET",
  url: "/fire_ajax"
})

* JavaScript using.on instead of .live (which was replaced)
* 
$(‘body’).on(‘event_name’, ‘CSS_selector’, function_do_stuff)

‘Body’ can be any parent element
* Remember the method Object.entries(your_object) to access all of your object’s key-value pairs
* Reminder that in form helper for rails…. The name=“” HTML output has to result in “model_name[attr_name]”
* Add hours to your DateTime object with + 5.hour
* Learned about CSS flex-boxes… and also CSS grid… they are different display properties, which then have different features.
* TurboLinks does jQuery where it replaces <body>… this means that for your other jQuery you need to do on turbo links land instead of $(document).ready
$(document).on('turbolinks:load', function() {
  console.log("It works on each visit!")
})
* Sprockets vs web pack.. different style tags and notations
* Web pack install
    * https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/webpacker.html
* <%= javascript_pack_tag 'application', 'data-turbolinks-track': 'reload' %>  is a helper method from web pack… looks for apps/javascript/packs/application.js file and loads it
* stylesheet_pack_tag requires application CSS file in the packs
* Bootstrap utilities show you the shortcuts for things like mb-4 
* To get nicely formatted error message… use model level validation
e.g.
validates :date, presence: true
As opposed to just database level constraint
* .join and .merge to get List of records that fulfill certain association criteria… does an intersection of table.
    * e.g. I used this to get show all studios that the current user is employed at
* Can make separate JS files in /packs…. (e.g. my_js.js) And then in the view template, call them with <%= javascript_pack_tag 'my_js' %>
* Rails unobtrusive JS gives you nice helpers
* Javascript get today’s date without time
var today = new Date();
    today.setHours(0, 0, 0, 0);

document.write(today);
* If Pundit is returning Nil Policy, try restarting your server…

* rake red (assuming erd gem is installed) to generate pdf of entity resources diagram
