* Use remote: true  in the link_to helper method to break the link… or local: false in the form_with helper
* escape_javascript() helper method in Rails to prep string for JS
* Function within a function uses closure, which allows preservation of variables (while also keeping those variable outside of the  global scope)
* Arrow functions, =>, allow simplification of function creation syntax… e.g.
    * const action_name = input => `Do stuff with the ${input}`;
* () => some_action_here;   …. The () => is like a function with no inputs… that just does some action
* To add id to a Rails form helper, use this argument 
    * :html => { :id => "new_form" }
* My current summary for the procedure of JS implementation on our rails apps would be:
    * Add the relevant <scirpt src=“”></script> to the .html.erb view template
    * Add a .js.erb file that will run the JS you want based on the action
    * Disable the reroute/convert form submission to a JS request using the remote: true / local: false options
    * Make sure the controller action is set up to receive the JSON request… format.js {render template: that.jserb}
    * When you add code to the .js.erb file, consider how to select the relevant element. To make it easy, edit the relevant view templates (incl. partial view templates) to add an id=“” tag that will make it easy to CSS select
    * For edit actions, you should view is as 2 necessary parts: the edit action and the update action (the submission of the edit), each of which may need its own route.
    * For your controller actions, make sure the model variable is instantiated… you can do this through the before_action method up top that we have to run the set_movie action
    * You may need to have to edit form submission URLs and make them take a new URL manually
* To access object keys, you can use dot notation or square brackets…. colors.yellow vs colors[‘yellow’]
* “Snake case” = snake_case
* Ruby… for render statement, remember that you can pass variables through it…. So if I’m rendering a form with a model: movie (e.g.) I need to pass the value of “movie” through the render statement
* I ran into an issue where the form wasn’t rendering… had to encapsulate it within <td></td> tags for it to show up within the html structure… not sure why…. 
* Also, having the form load implicitly has a feature where when you click enter with the input, it will submit form update… the question to solve is what will happen if you ALSO have an event handler overlaid on top of that?
* I customized the form target URL with method patch on my new forms
￼
 
 <%= form_with(model: @movie, url: "/movies/#{@movie.id}/director_id/update", method: :patch, local: false, :html => { :id => "edit_director_form" }) do |form| %>
* Remember that the purpose of has_many and belongs_to is not only to have accessor methods… you also get assignment methods 
director.movies.create(title: "Shawshank")
And also… queries like joins Movie.joins(:director).where("directors.dob > ?", 30.years.ago) 
* Use form option tag and collection helpers to do select dropdown of a form that look up the id and show name for a field related to your database object
e.g.
<%= collection_select(:movie, :director_id, Director.all, :id, :name) %>
E.g.
collection_select(:post, :author_id, Author.all, :id, :name_with_initial, prompt: true)

Where the arguments are
collection_select(object, method, collection, value_method, text_method, options = {}, html_options = {}) public

* An observation: While we’re using JS for front-end visual things… note that when you use JavaScript to display a form, that now gives the user access to create a database entry in the backend… even though the form is being loaded on the stale page… because that resource/asset itself is “fresh”
Back to JavaScript ideas
* On arrays you can use .some() and .every() to check if at least one or every element within the array meets a particular condition
* The spread operator (“…”) is important in recalling existing info from objects
* In deciding whether to use shorthand function notation, one of the things you should think about is whether you need an explicit return call or not (if you drop curly brackets, then function will have implicit return)
* .reduce() in JS is like the .reduce/.inject in Ruby
* 
To type it out do..
```
array.reduce( () => {
})
```
Then add arbitrary names for the accumulator and element arguments… in addition to the starting default value

```
array.reduce( (accumulator, item ) => {
}, 0)
```

Then the return statement…

```
array.reduce( (accumulator, item ) => {
	return accumulator + item.desired_feature
}, 0)
```

* 


CSS practice

Type Selector name to choose a selector
# to check id tag
. To check class tag
, to separate multiple selectors
* the universal selector (select all)… can do p * to select all elements within <p>
+ to select adjacent siblings (elements that directly follow the other element… A+B select the B that directly follows A
~ to select all following elements (rather than just the one element)
> Direct children selector… A > B selects all B that are direct children of A
div p:first-child to choose the first <p> in the <div>

