---
layout: post
title: Things I learned from Week 2
---
[Exercism](#Exercism)

<hr>

[Helper Methods](#Helper-Methods)

# Exercism

* Ruby each_slice enumerable method (to split array into arrays)
* .each_line, split string that has multiple line into array of stirngs separated by lines (and then you can enumerate)




```
#different options

"hello\nworld".each_split{|s| p s}
"hello\nworld".each_split(chomp: true) {|s| p s}
```
* Enumerators
We call an object “enumerable” when it describes a set of items and a method to loop over each of them

Enumeration traverses over objects
If you supply an enumerable (like an .each) without a subsequent block, then you get the Enumerator Object... You can assign that object to a variable and then do somethings with that Object.
e.g.

```
enum = "hello".each_char
enum.map &:upcase

# ==>.  ["H","E","L","L",O"]

```

* How to make attr_reader and accessor work with question mark methods?
Use alias_method

```
attr_reader :server_error
alias_method :server_error?, :server_error
```

* From isogram… If I were to verbalize a generlaized approach for string problems… eliminate excess/non-useful variation… we do downcase since we don’t care about case (to standardize and eliminate case variation)… 
* .chars splits a string into an array of chars
* Array subtraction to eliminate any copies of a value from the original array
```
[1,2,3,4,5] - [1,3,4]  #=> [2,5]
```
This works with duplicates
```
[ 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 5 ] - [ 1, 2, 4 ]  #=>  [ 3, 3, 5 ]
```
**It's useful for strings as well**
To eliminate any spaces or other undesirable characters
```
word.downcase.chars - [' ', '-']
```
* Let’s generalize this as its own bullet point… to eliminate undesirable characters from string, convert to array of characters and subtract out the undesirables
* Use the .tap method to 1) streamline code 2) for debugging

1)
```
user = User.new.tap do |u|
  u.build_profile
  u.process_credit_card
  u.ship_out_item
  u.send_email_confirmation
  u.blahblahyougetmypoint
end
```

2)
```
(1..10).map {|x| x*x }.tap {|x| puts "array: #{x.length} items long"}.join

array: 10 items long
 => "149162536496481100"
```
Here’s another example of .tap where you can use it to exit a method that has a chain

```
.tap { |s| return false unless s[/\A\d\d+\z/] }
```
^just replace that regex condition with some other condition

* Delete spaces with .gsub(/\s/, ‘’)

* If else ternary operators
You can substitute

```
if condition
some_stuff
else
other_stuff
end
```

With

```
condition ? some_stuff : other_stuff
```
￼

You can even put the condition in a variable

* If you declare an instance variable in one method within a class and need to use it in another method… call the method1 within method2
￼

* Instance variables are applied to each class Object… say you have a CoffeeMachine class with a water level instance variable, @water . … if I have 10 different coffee machines, they will each have a different water level… so the @water for coffee machine #1 will be different than the @water for CoffeeMachine #2

* Method arguments… 
```
def method(argument) 
end
```

*With multiple arguments*
```
def method(argument1, argument2, argument3) end
```

*Optional argument (you need to specify default)*
```
def method(argument1, argument2 =“default value”)     #==>makes argument2 optional
end
```

*Variable arguments (allowing you take unlimited amount of values)*
```
def method(*args)
end
```

*Having some variable options*
```
def print_all(title, *chapters)
end
```

*keyword arguments (optional for readability)*
```
def method(arg: , arg2:)
end

#or like for making new Object in Class

class Point
  def initialize(x: , y:)
     @x, @y = x, y
  end
end

point = Point.new(x: 10, y: 20)
```
 

*valid order of arguments if you want to incorporate multiple types*

required -> optional -> variable -> keyword


# Helper Methods

