
---
layout: post
title: Things I learned from Week 5
---

JavaScript stuff

* ++  symbol directly after a variable name to auto increment + 1
* Switch statement is the JS version case.. requires “break;” in each case
* Much of the syntax is similar to ruby
* For loop has 3 statements… one before, one while, and one after
* Can do For Of loop
    * You have to instantiate the item object…
    * e.g. for (let item of cart) { }
* The Do While loop has interesting syntax… whereby the while() phrase gets used after the do block
    * What’s the difference between the While loop and the Do While? The Do While will always run the code block at least once, even if the condition is false
* Back in Ruby… First Draft chapter 861 on blocks… 
    * If I wanted to put dashed borders around some content via

```
border do
	puts “howdy!”
	puts “This text will be surrounded”
end
```

There are two components to notice… (1) is the arbitrary name “border” and then (2) is the block in between the do end 

The name, (1), will look for a def end method … whatever def end method this points to, it will need to be equipped/prepared to accept an incoming block

Couple of options for accepting the incoming block:

   * yield

```
def border
  puts "-" * 40
  yield
  puts "-" * 40
end
```

   * block argument appended to the method, with a .call within the method

```
def border(&content_instructions)
  puts "-" * 40
  content_instructions.call
  puts "-" * 40
end
```

* Now, we can supply both arguments and blocks to a method, as long as block comes last

```
def border(size, top_character, &content_instructions)
  puts top_character * size
  content_instructions.call
  puts top_character * size
end
```

* Next step is… what if we supply a block argument in our calling method?
    * e.g.
    * 
 ```
 border(40, "*") do |edge|
  puts edge + " howdy! ".ljust(38) + edge
  puts edge + " My name is Raghu ".ljust(38) + edge
end
```

Now, what does Ruby do with this |edge| argument… where does it pull a value for this edge?

Let’s go to our defined method again:


```
def border(size, top_character, &content_instructions)
  side_character = ["|", ":", "!", "I"].sample
  
  puts top_character * size
  puts side_character + " " * (size - 2) + side_character
  
  content_instructions.call(side_character)

  puts side_character + " " * (size - 2) + side_character
  puts top_character * size
end
```


The program finds the value for the supplied argument, “edge”, within the .call() parenthesis  So ruby takes the argument |edge| checks to get a value from it by looking at the def method and in the .call()


* In Google Chrome, press Command + Option + J to pull up the DevTools console and live run JavaScript
* JavaScript analogue of def end:
    * Ruby:
```
def greet
	puts “howdy!”
end

greet
```

    * JavaScript

```
function greet() {
	console.log(“howdy!”);
}
 greet();

 ```
 
* I see that JS is effectively allowing us to change the contents of the page in front of us, live (effectively changing what we are seeing)
* Create elements with jQuery
    * e.g.create it
```
let another_city = $("<li class='northeast'>Philadelphia</li>");
```
   * Then add it to the DOM

```
list = $("#cities_list");

list.append(another_city);
```

* If you want something to run after the first action… here is an example
```
x.fadeToggle(5000, function() {
  alert("All done!");
});
```

* There are also event handlers (where things happen at the occurrence of certain actions or tenets
e.g.

```
x.on("click", function() {
  $(".west").slideToggle();
});
```

* Other event examples include mouseovers, “change” (for <select> s), “keydown” for <input>, and “submit” for forms.

It does the 5 second fade and the generates popup

* Encapsulate jQuery in $(document).ready(function() { } )  callback so that the jQuery is fully loaded
* With rails, instead of document.ready… we can appeal to Turbolinks library, which comes preinstalled…
* So do it as a $(document).on(‘turbolinks:load’, function() { //code block})
* Different ways to type strings with quotes in JS
    * “I’m a string”
    * ‘I\’m a string’
    * `I’m a string`
    * ‘He said, “I’m a string”’
    * “He said, \”I’m a string\””
    * `He said, “I’m a string”`
* Template literals `` also identify new lines without the need of newline escape characters “\n”
