---
layout: post
title: Things I learned from Week 8
---



* If you have enum conflicts, use _suffix:true (or prefix)
* Validations get run when a record gets .save
* Reminder… the .create active record argument is like a combo of .new and .save
* git merge procedure…. create new branch. Commit in new branch. Go back to main branch (checkout). Commit. Then run git merge new_branch (to bring_in / import new_branch into main)
* git merge keeps two parents of commits

Above you start at C1… then with new branch it has two text lines… then when you commit, it creates C2 on separate node…
Checking out to main brings us back to C1.. committing in main creates that new node of C3, which is on a separate line/branch
* git rebase is for having a single parent of commits… makes all the commits linear by essentially copying a chain of commits
    * Can take two features, which were developed in parallel,  and make it look like they were developed in sequence
e.g.
If we’re in bugFix

git rebase main takes the bugFix commit and copies it to the main chain


Now when we are checked out at main (image omitted), git rebase bugFix moves the main branch reference forward in history

* git checkout commit_name (instead of branch name)  to separate HEAD from the commit… HEAD is the active ranch
* Relative git refs with ^ and <num> …. git checkout branch_name^ to access parent branch of that branch
* Travel backwards in time with HEAD^
* Replaced  <%= form.datetime_select :var_name %> 
    * With: 
<%= form.datetime_select("date_time", ampm: true, minute_step: 15) %>
* Make sure decimal value has a 0 in front of it
* Per Jelani… think of branches as lists of commits
* When you try to change string to integer for db column
change_column(:proposed_times, :sender_id, :integer) to
    	change_column(:proposed_times, :sender_id, :integer, 'integer USING CAST(sender_id AS integer)')

* 

<%= select_tag(:duration_hour, options_for_select( [ ['15min',.25], ['30min',.5] ] ))%>
